Continue refactoring in December 2022 (#8)
ietf-scitt/draft-birkholz-scitt-software-supply-chain-use-cases: draft-birkholz-scitt-software-use-cases.md

--- abstract

> This document includes a collection of representative Software Supply Chain Use Case Descriptions. These use cases aim to identify software supply chain problems that the industry faces today and acts as a guideline for developing a comprehensive solution for these class of scenarios.

Reviewer: Ok, but I think grammatically it is "for these classes"

Author: fixed in https://github.com/ietf-scitt/draft-birkholz-scitt-software-supply-chain-use-cases/pull/8/commits/fa0a72c755fe808a6e60b77a4a8d475ede440d28

> This document includes a collection of representative Software Supply Chain Use Case Descriptions. These use cases aim to identify software supply chain problems that the industry faces today and acts as a guideline for developing a comprehensive solution for these class of scenarios.

Author: ```suggestion
This document includes a collection of representative Software Supply Chain Use Case Descriptions. These use cases aim to identify software supply chain problems that the industry faces today and acts as a guideline for developing a comprehensive solution for these classes of scenarios.
```

> This document includes a collection of representative Software Supply Chain Use Case Descriptions. These use cases aim at identifying software supply chain problems that the industry faces today and acts as a guideline for developing a comprehensive solution for these class of scnenarios.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document includes a collection of representative Software Supply Chain Use Case Descriptions. These use cases aim to identify software supply chain problems that the industry faces today and acts as a guideline for developing a comprehensive solution for these class of scenarios.
```

Modern software applications are an intricate mix of first-party and third-party code, development practices and tools, deployment methods and infrastructure, and interfaces and protocols. The software supply chain comprises all elements associated with an application's design, development, build, integration, deployment, and maintenance throughout its entire lifecycle. The complexity of software coupled with a lack of lifecycle visibility increases the risks associated with system attack surface and the number of cyber threats capable of harmful impacts, such as exfiltration of data, disruption of operations, and loss of reputation, intellectual property, and financial assets. There is a need for a platform architecture that will allow consumers to know that suppliers maintained appropriate security practices without requiring access to proprietary intellectual property. SCITT-enabled products and analytics solutions will assist in managing compliance and assessing risk to help prevent and detect supply chain attacks across the entire software lifecycle while prioritizing data privacy.

## Terminology {#terms}

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

# Generic Problem Statement

> Supply chain security is a paramount prerequisite to successfully protect not only consumers that use supply chain outputs, e.g., products used in critical infrastructure, aerospace, but also to protect the economy, public health, and safety as a whole. Supply chain security has historically focused on risk management practices to safeguard logistics, meet compliance regulations, demand forecasts, and optimize inventory. While these elements are foundational to a healthy supply chain, an integrated cyber security-based perspective of the software supply chains remains broadly undefined. Recently, the global community has experienced numerous supply chain attacks targeting weaknesses in software supply chains. As illustrated in {{lifecycle-threats}}, a software supply chain attack may leverage one or more lifecycle stages and directly or indirectly target the component.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we should simplify that first sentence to avoid naming verticals. That said, I'm not sure my revision is great.

```suggestion
Supply chain security is a paramount prerequisite to successfully protect consumers and minimize economic, public health, and safety impacts. Supply chain security has historically focused on risk management practices to safeguard logistics, meet compliance regulations, demand forecasts, and optimize inventory. While these elements are foundational to a healthy supply chain, an integrated cyber security-based perspective of the software supply chains remains broadly undefined. Recently, the global community has experienced numerous supply chain attacks targeting weaknesses in software supply chains. As illustrated in {{lifecycle-threats}}, a software supply chain attack may leverage one or more lifecycle stages and directly or indirectly target the component.
```

<!-- ![SCITT_SW_Use_Case](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/100775190/197196387-f8f835ba-7023-4223-98c9-3d8ec197e658.svg) -->
~~~~

> generic supply chain threats diagram here

Reviewer 2: The SVG may not have displayed correctly.  Here is the PNG file source if there is interest in adapting this to an I-D approved format.

![SCITT_SW_Use_Case](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/100775190/206485067-f7e89d7c-b806-4a62-aa6b-da7a5f1f58f1.png)

~~~~
{: #lifecycle-threats title="Example Lifecycle Threats"}

> DevSecOps often depends on third-party and open-source solutions. These dependencies can be quite complex throughout the supply chain and render the checking of lifecycle compliance difficult. There is a need for manageable auditability and accountability of digital products. Typically, the range of types of statements about digital products (and their dependencies) is vast, heterogeneous, and can differ between community policy requirements. Taking the type and structure of all statements about digital and products into account might not be possible. Examples of statements may include commit signatures, build environment and parameters, software bill of materials, static and dynamic application security testing results, fuzz testing results, release approvals, deployment records, vulnerability scan results, and patch logs. In consequence, instead of trying to understand and describe the detailed syntax and semantics of every type of statements about digital products, the SCITT architecture focusses on ensuring statement authenticity, visibility/transparency, and intends to provide scalable accessability. The following use case illustrate the scope of SCITT and elaborate on the generic problem statement above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DevSecOps often depends on third-party and open-source solutions. These dependencies can be quite complex throughout the supply chain and render the checking of lifecycle compliance difficult. There is a need for manageable auditability and accountability of digital products. Typically, the range of types of statements about digital products (and their dependencies) is vast, heterogeneous, and can differ between community policy requirements. Taking the type and structure of all statements about digital and products into account might not be possible. Examples of statements may include commit signatures, build environment and parameters, software bill of materials, static and dynamic application security testing results, fuzz testing results, release approvals, deployment records, vulnerability scan results, and patch logs. In consequence, instead of trying to understand and describe the detailed syntax and semantics of every type of statement about digital products, the SCITT architecture focuses on ensuring statement authenticity, visibility/transparency, and intends to provide scalable accessibility. The following use case illustrates the scope of SCITT and elaborate on the generic problem statement above.
```

# Software Supply Chain Use Cases

## Updated Statements over Time

> A released software product is accompanied by a set of complementary statements about it's security compliance and is deemed secure by both producers and consumers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A software product is released, accompanied by a set of complementary statements about its security compliance, and deemed secure by the producer and consumers.
```

> After some time, new statements produced and published by 3rd parties show that a software component used in the software product contains potentially weakness.

Reviewer 2: We use third-party above, and 3rd party below. I don't have a preference, but let's be consistent.

```suggestion
After some time, new statements produced and published by third-parties show that a software component used in the software product contains a potential weakness.
```

> Over time, a statement of another 3rd party illustrates that the weakness is exposed in the software product in a way that it is an exploitable vulnerability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Over time, a statement from another third-party illustrates that the weakness is exposed in the software product in a way that it is an exploitable vulnerability.
```

> The producer of the software product now provides a statement that confirms the linking of software component vulnerability with the software product and also issues an advisory statement how to mitigate the vulnerability ad-hoc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The producer of the software product now provides a statement that confirms the linking of software component vulnerability with the software product and also issues an advisory statement on how to mitigate the vulnerability ad-hoc.
```

> Later, the producer provides an updated software product that still uses the vulnerable software component, but shields the issue in a fashion that inhibits exploitation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Later, the producer provides an updated software product that still uses the vulnerable software component but shields the issue in a fashion that inhibits exploitation.
```

> A second update of the software product includes a patch to the affected software component created by the software product producer itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A second update of the software product includes a patch to the affected software component created by the software product producer.
```

> A third update then includes an updated version of the formerly insecure software component - both the software product and the affected software component are deemed secure by both producer and consumers in this release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A third update includes an updated version of the formerly insecure software component. For this release, both the software product and the affected software component are deemed secure by the producer and consumers.
```

A consumer wants:

> * to know where to get these statements from producers and 3rd parties related to the software product in a timely and unambiguous fashion,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* to know where to get these statements from producers and third-parties related to the software product in a timely and unambiguous fashion,
```

* how to attribute them to an authoritative issuer,
* how to associate the statements in a meaningful manner, and
* how to consistently, efficiently, and homogeneously check their authenticity.

There is no standardized way to:

* know the various sources of statements,
* how to express the provenance and historicity of statements,

> * how to related/link various heterogeneous statements in a simple fashion,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* how to related/link various heterogeneous statements in a simple fashion, and
```

> * check that the statement actually is coming from a source that actually has the authority to issue that statement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* check that the statement comes from a source with authority to issue that statement.
```

## Authenticity of Promoted Software Products

A software component source (e.g., a library) released by a certain original producer is becoming popular.
The released software component source is accompanied by a statement of authenticity (e.g., a detached signature).

> Over time, there is an increasing amount of providers of the same version of the software component source over the Internet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Over time, there has been an increasing amount of providers of the same version of the software component source over the Internet.
```

> Some popular providers package the software component and provide the package with a proof of authenticity using their own issuer authority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some popular providers package the software component and provide the package with proof of authenticity using their own issuer authority.
```

> Some of these packages include the original statement of authenticity, some do not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some packages include the original statement of authenticity, and some do not.
```

> After some time, some providers do not offer the exact same software component source, but pre-compiled software component binaries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Over time, some providers no longer offer the exact same software component source but pre-compiled software component binaries.
```

> Some sources do not provide the exact same software component, but include patches and fixes produced faster by 3rd parties than the original producer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some sources do not provide the exact same software component but include patches and fixes produced by third-parties, as these emerge faster than solutions from the original producer.
```

> In the end, there is vast number of forms the original software component source is distributed and promoted by.

Reviewer 2: I'm unsure if this is better.

```suggestion
Due to complex distribution and promotion lifecycle scenarios, the original software component takes myriad forms.
```

A consumer wants:

> * to understand, if a certain provider is actually the original provider or a promoter,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* to understand if a particular provider is actually the original provider or a promoter,
```

> * to know, if and how the source (or resulting binary) of a promoted software component is different to the original software component,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* to know if and how the source, or resulting binary, of a promoted software component differs from the original software component,
```

* to check the provenance and history of a software component's source back to its origin, and

> * to assess whether to trust a promoter of not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* to assess whether to trust a promoter or not.
```

There is no standardized way to:

* to reliably discern a provider that is the original producer from a provider that is a trustworthy promoter or from an illegitimate provider,

> * track the provenance path from an original producer to a certain provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* track the provenance path from an original producer to a particular provider
```

* to check for the trustworthiness of a provider
* to check the integrity of modifications or transformations done by a provider

## Firmware Delivery to large set of constrained IoT Devices

### Introduction

> Firmware is ubiquitous. It is in phone, watch, TV, alarm clock, baby monitor, WiFi devices and possibly even in light bulbs if one uses LED lamps. In any given desktop or Personal Computer (PC) there is a BIOS or UEFI type firmware that people are familiar with, but there are also scores of other hidden firmware blobs running on small controllers which power things like management engines, keyboards, network cards, hard disks, SSD's etc.

Reviewer 2: I removed PCs, phones, and watches to avoid any IoT definition debates.

```suggestion
Firmware is ubiquitous in IoT devices (e.g., appliances, televisions, smart LED bulbs, HVAC, automobiles), runs at the highest privilege level possible, and is often the bedrock on which the security story of the devices it powers.
```

> Firmware is powerful, it runs in a highest privilege level possible and is often the bedrock on which the security story of the devices it powers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Firmware is powerful. It runs in the highest privilege level possible and is often the bedrock on which the security story of the devices it powers.
```

> Firmware is powerful, it runs in a highest privilege level possible and is often the bedrock on which the security story of the devices it powers.

Reviewer 2: Incorporated this in the above sentence.

```suggestion
```

### Personal Health Monitoring Systems

> Personal health monitoring devices, i.e., eHealth devices are typically battery driven and located physically on or under user control to monitor some bodily function, such as temperature, blood pressure or pulse rate. These devices typically connect to the Internet through an intermediary base station, using wireless technologies. This connection is used to report the monitored data and also to update the firmware on the health monitoring system. This public network and open distribution system produces its own security challenges.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Personal health monitoring devices, i.e., eHealth devices, are generally battery driven and offer health telemetry monitoring, such as temperature, blood pressure, and pulse rate. These devices typically connect to the Internet through an intermediary base station using wireless technologies. Through this connection, the telemetry data and analytics transfer, and devices receive firmware updates when published by the vendor. The public network, open distribution system, and firmware update process create several security challenges.
```

> Today, the best-in-class firmware vendors who supply the firmware also provide an update framework, which verifies the integrity and authenticity of firmware updates before allowing them to be installed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, the best-in-class firmware vendors who supply the firmware also provide an update framework, which verifies the integrity and authenticity of firmware updates before allowing installation.
```

#### Firmware Delivery Problem Summary

> Even with a robust firmware update system the following problems remain as given below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even with a robust firmware update system, the following problems remain as given below:
```

> * How does the client applying the firmware update on the system know, that the received firmware is not faulty or even malicious ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How does the client applying the firmware update on the system know that the received firmware is not faulty or malicious?
```

> * What if the signing identity used to assert the authenticity of the firmware is somehow used to sign unintended updates ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* What if the signing identity used to assert the authenticity of the firmware is somehow used to sign unintended updates?
```

> * How can one ascertain that the released firmware is not subverted or compromised due to an insider risk - be it malicious or otherwise ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How can one ascertain that the released firmware is not subverted or compromised due to an insider risk - be it malicious or otherwise?
```

> * How the publisher themselves even know that there deliverable has been compromised in some way, can they trust their  key protection or audit logging ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How does the publisher even know that their deliverable has been compromised? Can they trust their key protection or audit logging?
```

> * How  the update client on an instance of health monitoring system know that they have been given the same update as all other devices or one especially crafted for just a small subset of fleet of devices ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How does the update client on an instance of a health monitoring system know that they have been given the same update as all other devices or one specially crafted for just a small subset of a fleet of devices?
```

## Software Integrator assembling a software product for a smart car
### Introduction

> Software Integration is a complex activity. It essentially implies combining various different software components coming from a range of suppliers and producing a combined executable to be given to a Device Manufacturer. Then the executable is loaded into the device, as part of device assembly.

Reviewer 2: We may clarify this entire section further through some language simplification and the insertion of open questions.

```suggestion
Software Integration is a complex activity. It implies combining various software components from multiple suppliers and producing an integrated package deployed as part of device assembly and provisioning.
```

> The complexity adds a level of security vulnerability into the delivered software.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Integration complexity creates a higher risk of security vulnerabilities to the delivered software.
```

> ### Assembly of a Components in a Smart Car

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Assembly of Components in a Smart Car
```

> SoftAuto Ltd and Smart Cars Ltd are two different companies that source developed integrated software that can be loaded into autonomous vehicles they produce. Both these companies, source integrated software solution from Micro Coding Wizard (MCW) a fictitious company that sells integrated software solutions that can be loaded into specific vehicle product. MCW assembles the OS from Vendor OS-X that is built on top of Firmware released by Component Vendor-A and then integrates a package manager and some open source libraries to make the final software product. The assembled software is loaded onto a car manufactured by Smart Cars Ltd. The car is been sold and is been actively used by Customer-Y.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SoftAuto Ltd and Smart Cars Ltd are two different companies that source third-party integrated software for the autonomous vehicles they produce. Both these companies source integrated software solutions from Micro Coding Wizard (MCW), a fictitious company that sells integrated software solutions. MCW assembles the OS from Vendor OS-X that is built on top of firmware released by Component Vendor-A and then integrates a package manager and some open-source libraries to make the final software product. The assembled software is loaded onto a car manufactured by Smart Cars Ltd. The car has been sold and is actively used by Customer-Y.
```

### Software Problem Summary

> * While the software is been running on the automated vehicle, a periodic vulnerability scanning software detects some known security issue with one of the component. Customer-Y is prompted with a "Warning Indicator" on the dashboard. As a result, Customer-Y reports the problem to Smart Cars Ltd.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* While the software runs on the automated vehicle, periodic vulnerability scanning software detects a known security issue with one component. Customer-Y is prompted with a "Warning Indicator" on the dashboard. As a result, Customer-Y reports the problem to Smart Cars Ltd.
```

> * Smart Cars Ltd, while not very sure what could be the problem, under panic communicates to MCW and requests them to look into the problem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Smart Cars Ltd, has little insight into the root cause of the error, communicates to MCW, and requests them to look into the problem.
```

> * MCW does initial investigation and suspects that the binary received from Vendor OS-X has some problems. It demands specific environment and architectural details associated with the built operating systems binary to ascertain that the software was produced without any tampering by the Vendor OS-X.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* MCW does an initial investigation and suspects that the binary received from Vendor OS-X has some problems. It demands specific environment and architectural details associated with the built operating systems binary to ascertain that the software was produced without tampering by Vendor OS-X.
```

> * Unfortunately there is no way for the integrator to know, if the binary was compromised, so the integrator is concerned they may have delivered malware unknowingly to their customers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Unfortunately, there is no way for the integrator to know if the binary was compromised, so the integrator is concerned they may have delivered malware unknowingly to their customers.
```

> * Vendor OS-X attempts to show that it did all the steps correctly. It does disclose information about the binary they delivered. In addition to this, they also demonstrated the build environment and the architecture, they used during the build.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Vendor OS-X attempts to show that it did all the steps correctly. It does disclose information about the binary they delivered. In addition, they also reveal their build environment and the architecture they used during the build.
```

> * However there is no "Verifiable Proofs" of the statement made by Vendor OS-X.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* However, there are no "Verifiable Proofs" of the statement made by Vendor OS-X.
```

> * MCW, Smart Cars Ltd., and Customer-Y now has to trust without any means of verifying the claims made by Vendor OS-X.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* MCW, Smart Cars Ltd., and Customer-Y now have to trust without the ability to verify the claims made by Vendor OS-X.
```

* Vendor OS-X thinks there is some mistake on the part of MCW that has led to this situation.

* The deadlock continues, with no clear resolution.

> * This eventually leads to loss of reputation and company closure for Vendor OS-X.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This eventually leads to a loss of reputation and company closure for Vendor OS-X.
```

Firmware is powerful, it runs in a highest previlege level possible and is often the bedrock on which the security story of the devices it powers.

### Personal Health Monitoring Systems

Personal health monitoring devices, i.e., eHealth devices are typically battery driven and located physically on or under user control to monitor some bodily function, such as temperatire, blood pressure or pulse rate. These devices typically connect to the Internet through an intermediary base statation, using wireless technologies. This connection is used to report the monitored data and also to update the firmware on the health monitoring system. This public network and open distribution system produces its own security challenges.

Today, the best-in-class firmware vendors who supply the firmware also provide an update framework, which verifies the integrity and authenticity of firmware updates before allowing them to be installed.

#### Firmware Delivery Problem Summary

Even with a robust firmware update system the following problems remain as given below:

* How does the client applying the firmware update on the system know, that the received firmware is not faulty or even malicious ?

> * What if the signing identity used to assert the authenticity of the firmware is somehow used to sign unintended updates (whether through outright compromise as in the Realtek identity used to sign the Stuxnet worm)?

Reviewer 3: nice to see Stuxnet, but do we really want to invoke its name?

Author: no. will remove parenthesis for now

Author: fixed in https://github.com/ietf-scitt/draft-birkholz-scitt-software-supply-chain-use-cases/commit/aff48d30f9f036439ca587e4824d18b8244b6cc1
